TCP ZEROCOPY RECEIVE SUPPORT

The tcp_zc protocol supports zero-copy TCP send and receive using io_uring. It
is enabled if liburing is present in the system (but note that it currently
requires a relatively new version of liburing, so it may be necessary to compile
that from source).

By default, the tcp_zc protocol will attempt zero-copy operation for both send
and receive. Send and receive can be  be disabled individually by setting the
'zc_skip_tx' and 'zc_skip_rx' flags (respectively) on the connect flow
operation. Note that the zerocopy support has only been tested with a single
thread (nthreads=1), and will probably fail in a multithreaded setup.

In addition, the receive side needs additional parameters specified at the
command line to work (on either the master or slave side, depending on which end
is receiving the traffic):

- The interface to receive packets on (specified with -I)
- The receive queue on that interface to bind the buffers to (specified with -Q)
- Optionally the CPU to pin receive to (specified with -C; see note below)

The queue specified must be configured in the hardware to receive the TCP
packets, and TCP header split must be enabled on the device (which generally
also requires hardware GRO to be enabled).

Note that because uperf also uses TCP for its control connection, that flow
needs to be steered to *not* be received at the zero-copy queue.

An example setup could be something like:

Ensure there are at least two queues::

  ethtool -L eth0 combined 2

Enable header/data split::

  ethtool -G eth0 tcp-data-split on

Carve out half of the HW Rx queues for zero copy using RSS::

  ethtool -X eth0 equal 1

Set up flow steering, bearing in mind that queues are 0-indexed::

  ethtool -N eth0 flow-type tcp4 action 1

Add an additional rule to steer the uperf control traffic to queue 0:

  ethtool -N eth0 flow-type tcp4 dst-port 20000 action 0


A NOTE ON CPU PINNING AND PERFORMANCE

For zero-copy receive to perform well, it is important that the application is
running on the same NUMA node as the packets are received on. This can be
achieved by steering the NIC interrupts the CPU that the traffic should arrive
on, and then pinning the uperf operation (using -C) to run on a CPU on the same
NUMA node. Running uperf on the same CPU (not just the same NUMA node) as the
NIC interrupts seems to be beneficial for maximum performance. CPU pinning on
the sender side has less impact (barely any).

EXAMPLE:

On the slave (receiver side):
uperf -s -I ens2f0np0 -Q 1 -C 44 -v

On the master (sender):
proto=tcp_zc h=192.168.0.2 nthr=1 ./src/uperf -m workloads/iperf.xml -C 0

For more information, see the kernel documentation on zerocopy receive:
https://docs.kernel.org/networking/iou-zcrx.html
